# Tare

Tare is the secret sauce of ramen, and I'd argue it's more important than soup.
Tare (pronounced "tah-reh") means "dipping sauce" in Japanese, but, it's a lot
more than just sauce in the ramen world. It's, well, secret sauce!

Seriously, tare is extremely secretive, so much so that most chefs hide their
ramen making secrets in their tare. I know a few chefs who still make all of the
tare themselves, just to prevent their cooks from ripping off their recipes.
This has given tare an illustrious reputation, something that is coveted and
difficult to replicate. Many chefs, troubled by the perceived complexity and
depth to tare, don't even bother making it, opting to purchase tares from
third-party manufacturers instead. And all of this is unknown to customers, and
even some cooks in the same shops are left out of these details. Layers and
layers of secrecy. It's sort of like BBQ sauce, in that a pitmaster may take an
immense amount of pride in their sauce, or they might doctor up some Sweet Baby
Rays.

Tare provides three things to ramen, all of which are important: 

* Salinity (absolutely essential)
* Flavor (very important)
* Umami (very important)

Each of these will be discussed in depth as part of this chapter. But tare is
probably the biggest fundamental difference between ramen and other soup
techniques: mainly, the separation of seasoning and soup cooking until the final
assembly of the dish. 

Much of this is because it provides flexibility to a ramen shop. The business
model makes this approach more accessible since one soup can become multiple
dishes with different tares, which, due to their salt level, are often stable in
the fridge for many weeks/months/years. At home, this may be less of a concern,
but I like to keep tares and soups separate until serving for the same reason
shops do; it gives me incredible flexibility. A chicken soup can become a fish
bomb with the right tare. But if you only have a fishy chicken soup, that's all
it will ever be. 

Much like in cooking in general, it's easier to add than it is to take away. And
tare is the ultimate foundational method to accomplish this. I would argue that
tare is, single-handedly, the most important thing you can focus on as a ramen
cook. Tare radically changes the flavor of the dish. 

## Salt

The main function of tare is to season the soup. Before the addition of tare, a
ramen broth has essentially no salt (as you've seen in the soup chapter, none of
these recipes contain any salt).

I hear this comment often from those starting their ramen journey. They've spent
the last 18 hours boiling away a tonkotsu, and when they try the soup, they are
immensely disappointed. It's bland. It has no flavor. It's decidedly boring. It
might even be gross.

99% of the time, this is because it has no salt. 

I cannot stress how important this is. **THE SOUP NEEDS SALT**. Which is what tare
is for. Without salt, this soup is just not going to be very good. 

Now, I could go and tell you that an optimal addition of salt is 1.5% the volume
of the broth in grams (so for 350 mL of broth, add enough tare to make the total
bowl be 1.5% salt, meaning most tare falls into 10--20% salt by weight), but the
truth is, this is entirely down to taste. Some folks like a salty punch in each
sip of the broth, others like a bowl with a little more subtlety. Only you can
decide. For finished bowls, I've included recommended tare amounts (in either
weight or volume depending on the tare style), but ultimately your palate guides
the experience here. Taste, adjust as needed, see what works for you. 

As a side note, I want you to ignore anything you might have heard about
specific types of salt. Tare is normally a liquid or paste, which means that the
salt's crystal size or shape doesn't affect the flavor. And since the salt
comprises a small amount of the total bowl, the salt's additional minerals
aren't going to affect flavor. Those shops that tout using five different salts
in their tare? It's mostly marketing. But the addition of salt as an ingredient
is immensely important for ramen, let alone cooking in general. And tare is the
primary way salt is added to ramen.

## Flavor

Tare provides flavor, no question. Tares are chock full of intensely flavored
ingredients. Kombu, shiitake, soy sauce, miso, these are not subtle ingredients,
they can massively adjust the way a dish feels when you eat it. So tares are
flavor bombs. If you've ever tried a tare, you've undoubtedly noticed that it is
complex and contains a wealth of flavor. That is 100% intentional.

However, it's also worth noting that, like other aromatics used in soup, many of
the foundational tare ingredients contain flavor compounds that also volatilize
when exposed to heat over prolonged periods. Should these ingredients be
included in the soup initially, they would effectively "cook out" and their
flavor would be diminished. By separating the tare from the soup, you can
effectively control the degree of intensity of your seasoning ingredients. This,
again, is noticeably different from western soup, where seasoning agents are
generally added early in the process. 

## Beyond Salt and Flavor: Adding Umami Concepts

In the introduction, I suggested that you could also add umami to ramen by
adding tare. While the meat-based soups described in this book provide some
umami, tare increases the umami way more than anything else in ramen. There are
two ways that ingredients can provide umami: through the addition of glutamic
acid directly or the addition of ingredients with "synergistic nucleotides" that
improve the sensation of glutamic acid on the palate. We'll cover each. 

### Umami From Glutamic Acid 

Glutamic acid is what your tongue tastes when you taste "umami". It pops up in a
lot of ingredients like parmesan cheese, tomatoes, and grilled meats.
Ajinomoto's Umami Information Center has put together [lists of glutamic
acid-rich ingredients][umami_by_food] {cite}`umami_by_food` should you wish to
explore further. Including these ingredients in your tare will increase the
amount of glutamic acid in your final dish, and therefore umami.

In ramen, the commonly used ingredients that contain glutamic acid are soy
sauce, kombu, and miso. These are all used extensively in tare (and indeed, I
include them in several recipes). There are other ingredients of course that
include glutamic acid, and much of the modern ramen making thought involves
pushing the content of glutamic acid forward. 

But we can cheat a little beyond just using natural umami sources. Tare can also
improve the umami of ramen because it's where the addition of a certain infamous
ingredient happens, that ingredient being MSG. Monosodium glutamate. The beast
itself. MSG and ramen go hand in hand, and often shops brag about not using it,
because of how rare a lack of MSG actually is. If you've eaten ramen in Japan,
you've probably had MSG. Much like how salt is often necessary for food to taste
good, MSG can play an important role in elevating a dish by providing glutamate.

```{admonition} A Personal Note on MSG 

I have no problem with MSG. I love MSG actually. In small amounts, it greatly
increases the savory characteristics of dishes, amplifies flavors, and makes
ramen taste more cohesive. It also can help balance off-flavors, which is why
most Tonkotsu shops in Kyushu rely heavily on MSG in their ramen.

But if you want to challenge the use of MSG because of health risks, then I need
to be a little more critical. Beyond the fear being rooted in a controversial
history associated with slander against Chinese restaurants, the science behind
the health scare is bad. Glutamate is a naturally occurring amino acid we make
and use in our bodies. It's found in most animal products and many fermentation
products, like soy sauce, are also loaded with it. What happens to glutamate
when we eat it? Glutamate is regularly consumed in cellular metabolism in our
bodies. Specifically, glutamate is easily converted to alpha-ketoglutarate by an
enzyme known as glutamate dehydrogenase. I won't dive too deep into the
biochemistry, all you need to know is that alpha-ketoglutarate acts as an
essential compound found in our cell metabolism that they all use to stay alive.
I find it hard to believe that most glutamate sources, given that they feed
right into our metabolism, would be much of a risk to our health. 

The most critical position I've seen suggests MSG can cause headaches, but how
this relates to the quantity of MSG consumed is ambiguous, and most of the cases
are anecdotal. With some more investigation, these claims fall apart.
[Scientific studies][obayashi_2016] suggest that there is no strong correlation
between headaches and MSG {cite}`obayashi_2016`. Ultimately, there is nothing
remarkable about the glutamate in MSG, and certainly sodium isn't dangerous, so
I don't think there should be a problem using a little MSG here and there.

Now, I don't think MSG is required to make ramen. Tare adds complexity in the
form of new flavors and aromas, and that complexity is important for making a
good bowl of ramen. But I sometimes include MSG in my tare. MSG helps make food
delicious, and my goal is always first and foremost to make delicious ramen.
```

### Umami From Synergistic Nucleotides

The other way to improve umami is through the addition of ingredients that
contain compounds called synergistic nucleotides. These compounds don't directly
add glutamates, but they still provide or increase umami. There are a bunch of
these nucleotides {cite}`briand_taste_2016`, far more than I'll cover here.
Synergy is important here, in that when synergistic nucleotides are combined
with glutamates, they increase the sensation of umami more than they would
independently. When it comes to taste synergies, 1 + 1 = 3, or at least it can
appear that way. How much umami boosting is possible? Well, one study determined
that the intensity for tasting glutamic acid increased by nearly 8-fold when the
synergistic nucleotide inosinic acid (IMP) was added at an equal weight percent
with MSG {cite}`yamaguchi_umami_2000`.

These nucleotides aren't artificial either, they're naturally found in all sorts
of foods. IMP, for instance, is found in seafood (particularly niboshi and
katsuobushi), chicken, and pork. Another synergistic nucleotide, Guanosine
monophosphate (GMP), is commonly found in tomatoes and mushrooms. Older ramen
cooks were using these compounds to their benefit, they just didn't know it.
Japanese chefs essentially stumbled upon the combination of synergistic
nucleotides and glutamic acid through trial, error, and good luck by developing
dashi. For instance, they found that combining kombu with bonito created a soup
that was exceptionally full of umami. Much of this is because the IMP in the
bonito and glutamates in the kombu are extracted in dashi.

Modern ramen chefs, many in direct response to glutamate's ancient use and the
newfound scientific research, are now actively seeking out ingredients with high
amounts of both glutamate and these nucleotides for the ultimate umami blast in
their tares. This is especially true for shio tares, which only use salt as the
core source of the tare's salinity. These tares tend to have fish products high
in glutamate and synergistic nucleotides. For a more in-depth view of umami that
expands on these ideas, I recommend the book "Umami, Unlocking the Secrets of
the Fifth Taste" {cite}`mouritsen_umami_2015`.

## Final Thoughts on Tare

There are admittedly other grey areas when it comes to tare. Some shops blend
tares. Some shops make a shio tare, but use soy sauce in it. Is that really a
shoyu? Who knows! These are just terms to help explain the style of a tare. And
style is just a framework to help understand complex concepts, you can
ultimately make a tare however you like as long as it provides salinity and
umami. 

Tare exists on a continuum in terms of its presence, and how you use the tare
will depend on the final bowl you're trying to make. On one end of the spectrum,
tare's are used for very simple seasoning. Tare's main goal in these varieties
is to just add salt and umami. For this style of tare, it should exist as a
backdrop to the soup. On the other end of our tare spectrum, tare becomes the
focal flavor of the dish, being more complex in composition and character. Here,
the tare is meant to be the main aspect of the soup you wind up tasting, with
the broth playing a very minor role flavor-wise. Which side of the spectrum
you'd like to use in your tare is up to you. You may want an intense, soy-sauce
punch of flavor in your ramen. You may be more interested in subtle aromatics.
Your tare should be designed around that. 

The three core tares and some example recipes are listed next.

[umami_by_food]: https://www.umamiinfo.com/richfood/
[obayashi_2016]: https://doi.org/10.1186/s10194-016-0639-4
[briand_taste_2016]: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780081002957000049#bib0475
[yamaguchi_umami_2000]: https://academic.oup.com/jn/article/130/4/921S/4686627
[mouritsen_umami_2015]: https://www.amazon.com/Umami-Unlocking-Traditions-Perspectives-Culinary/dp/0231168918