# Steeped Egg

Also known as ajitama, ajidama, tsuketamago, ajitamago, hanjukutamago, etc.

Steeped eggs are probably the most loved part of ramen in the US. Often more
than the noodles and soup, Americans love a soft-cooked egg with just a bit of
seasoning, the yolk, gooey and liquid, spilling into the broth, with a firm,
fully cooked white. Stuff of legends. 

There are generally two approaches to soft boiled eggs, but they begin with the
same starting point: an egg with fully cooked whites, and typically liquid but
creamy yolks (though some shops also create fully cooked eggs). 

The history of eggs as a ramen topping is sort of bizarre; legend has it that
they were originally a snack food given out at shops before the dish itself.
Someone must have figured out that one could combine the two instead of
separating them because the pairing works really well. Different shops name them
different things based on preparation and customs, but for the sake of
simplicity we'll just call them "Eggs".

There's a way to predict just how quickly the egg will season, but the math
behind it is rigorous. Even Scott was scratching his head for a little bit (and
still is). Luckily, the final formula is pretty simple. The length of the
diffusion layer for a three-dimensional object is described by:

$$
L^2 = 6 D t
$$

Here, $L$ is the depth of the diffusion layer, $D$ is the diffusion coefficient
(in $m^2/s$), and $t$ is the time (in seconds). In this case, $D$ is a material
property of the egg, the solution, and the temperature, which is best determined
by experiment. The important takeaway is that time is related to the square of
the seasoning's distance into the egg. This means that a full cure will take
longer than you might intuitively think. If it takes 1 hour for the brine to
penetrate the egg white 1 mm, it will take 4 hours to penetrate 2 mm, and 9
hours to penetrate just 3 mm. This means that it can be pretty difficult to
overseason the egg unless your brine is particularly salty, and that brining is
often an exercise in waiting more than careful timing. 

Now, where do we start? First, you gotta make some soft-boiled eggs. Here's my
go-to technique.

## Ingredients

* High-quality chicken eggs (large is good)
* Water
* Ice

## Steps

1. Bring a large pot of water to a full boil.

2. In a large bowl or container, fill with ice and cold water to make an ice
   bath. Reserve. 

3. Remove eggs from the refrigerator. Optionally, using a thumbtack or the heel
   of a knife, poke a small hole or divot in the bottom of the wider side of the
   egg.

   * This step has the benefit of allowing the albumen to expand in the shell,
     preventing cracking, and helps with the overall shape of the egg. It's
     optional, but if you're having trouble with eggs cracking, or having eggs
     that are hard to peel, this step can help. Sort of a shop secret. 

4. Working in batches of 4--6 eggs at a time, to avoid the water temperature
   dropping too quickly. lower your eggs into the boiling water.

5. Boil the eggs, stirring occasionally during the first minute or so of
   cooking, for 6--7 minutes, depending on how firm you'd like the yolk. I like
   7, the yolk gets juuuust a tad cooked, and slightly custardy. Others like a
   completely liquid yolk, which is around 6 minutes to 6 minutes 30 seconds. 

6. After the time is up, quickly remove the eggs from the water and place them
   in the ice bath from step 2, hold for 15 minutes, or until thoroughly
   chilled. 

   * This process, called shocking, prevents additional carry-over cooking (the
     exterior of the egg is much hotter than the interior), making sure the
     white is fully cooked without allowing the yolk to cook more than
     necessary. 

7. Peel, then proceed with the steeping method below. 

Once you have your soft boiled eggs, there are a few approaches to finalizing
them:

## Steeping Method Zero: Do Nothing, Eat The Eggs As Prepared Now

Okay, I lied, not all methods will involve steeping. Soft boiled eggs are
delicious in their own right, and it's not unheard of for shops to include just
a plain ol' unsteeped egg. You can slice them in half and float them on the
soup, exposing their gloriously liquid yolk to all. Or you can keep them whole,
and let them bob on the surface ready to be broken into with chopsticks, the
yolk gushing out to the delight of the consumer as the egg white is broken.
Either/or works.

Naturally, these eggs aren't seasoned. If you want to add to the flavor profile,
the next options will accomplish that. In keeping with common approaches in egg
seasoning, both steeping methods involve a brine, but the difference between
each method depends on the proportions of seasoning used and timing.

## Steeping Method One: Quick and Easy Brine

This is the generally accepted approach for eggs in most Japanese kitchens. It's
simple and doesn't require a lot of precision. Just be sure to pull the eggs out
after 4--6 hours to avoid over-saturating them in the brine. 

### Ingredients

* One part soy sauce
* One part mirin
* One part water

So for 300 mL of brine, use 100 mL of each ingredient. How much brine you want
to make is totally up to you.

### Steps

1. Place peeled eggs in an airtight container, like a hard plastic container or
   a sealable bag.

2. Pour the above ingredients into the container to cover (you may not need to
   use all the brine, reduce the amount as necessary) .

3. Soak, jostling contents every hour or so, for 4--6 hours. 

4. Remove from brine, reserve in the fridge until needed. 

You can tell based on the detail here that I like, but don't love, this method.
So what do I prefer? 

## Steeping Method 2: Equilibrium Brine 

[Equilibrium brining][chefsteps_equilibrium] is a technique commonly used to
flavor proteins like chicken or pork {cite}`chefsteps_equilibrium`. However, few
cooks, if anyone, have used this method for eggs, and the technique's results
are very effective. 

The technique treats the brine as the general flavor and salinity you want your
brined item to be, not more or less. Like the previous method, diffusion is
still involved. In that technique, eventually everything will reach equilibrium,
where no more seasoning is diffusing into the egg. However, the salt content is
very high in that method's brine, and that salt would not only overseason the
egg at equilibrium but would destroy the proteins in the process, creating
something far from delicious. 

By contrast, this equilibrium method takes the guesswork out of knowing when to
pull the eggs and creates a consistent edge to edge seasoned egg with no grainy
yolks. And that's reflected in the final egg's appearance and taste. In this
method, the egg white is uniformly seasoned throughout, and the yolk is lightly
cured, firming into a clear and fully seasoned gel. 
 
While this technique might seem more technical, it's still simple. You just need
a scale and patience. Based on my experimentation, these eggs will be perfect
anywhere from 1 to 4 days after being placed in the brine with no loss in
quality. The only real downside is that you have to wait around 1--4 days before
they'll be ready. Which… y'know… some of us don't like to wait, I get it.
Physics doesn't make exceptions for any of us, unfortunately. Still, I think
patience is a virtue, and these are delicious and easy. 

### Ingredients

* Water (varies)
* Soy sauce (varies)
* Mirin (varies)

### Steps

1. In the container you will also soak the eggs in, weigh your peeled eggs. Add
   water to cover completely, and record the total weight of the eggs and
   water. 

   * For instance, if I have 3 cooked and peeled eggs that weigh 150 grams, and
     I cover them completely with 350 grams of water, I'd have 500 grams total.

2. Add in 10% of this weight in soy sauce, and 8% in mirin. 

   * If in the example above, since your eggs and water weighs 500 grams, you'd
     add in 50 grams of soy sauce, and 40 grams of mirin. 

3. Soak in the fridge for at least 24 hours, and reserve in the brine until
   needed. Anywhere from 1--3 days, these will be excellent. If left in the brine
   for longer, the egg begins to degrade in quality over time. I've found that
   anything longer than 5 days and the egg's exterior will feel soft and
   somewhat crumbly. 

[chefsteps_equilibrium]: https://www.chefsteps.com/activities/equilibrium-brining