# Soup

Within ramen, there are two routes a soup can go. It can either be made from
fresh meat products that require long cooking times, or dried fish products that
require short cooking times. Each of these soups on their own has various
applications. 

Ramen is, historically, a meat-based dish. Chinese cooks were making meat soups
in the early 20th century and, depending on your historical source, some number
of industrious Japanese business owners adapted those soups to local tastes by
adding soy sauce to the final dish. Meat and ramen are quintessential pairs,
it's hard to imagine ramen's popularity without meat-based soup. 

So the focus of this chapter will be primarily on meat-based soups, though
fish-based soups are discussed later. When I refer to soup in this chapter, I
specifically mean one that uses some amount of animal bones or tissue to achieve
its flavor and viscosity. 

Soup often seems like an extremely complex part of the process. The soup lore is
astounding, with some shops cooking their soup in big vats for years,
continuously adding new bones and water. There are stories of tonkotsu shops
that boil their soup for over 40 hours. Some chefs meticulously monitor their
soups, making sure the temperatures hover in each specific degree, no more no
less. And none of this covers the recent growing popularity of other cooking
techniques, like sous vide and pressure cooking, which can both be used in soup
making (more on that later!). 

But the reality is, soups are easy. Seriously. All soups made with meat products
can be divided into two categories, and the method for making them is very
straight forward, virtually all recipes you will find are simply variants of the
methods we will describe. 

The two categories of soups in ramen are: 

1. **chintan soups**, or clear soups
2. **paitan soups** or cloudy soups

There are endless variations on these two, but all soups (yep, all of them) fall
into one of these two categories. Admittedly, it's more like a continuum than a
pure categorization, some soups are slightly cloudy, others less so. But this is
all soup is. 

In my experience, this means the variation by soup is rarely on technique and
much more by ingredient selection. The process for meat soups, in almost all
cases, goes as follows: 

1. Cook animal parts in water to extract flavor and convert collagen to gelatin,
   which adds thickness and mouthfeel.

2. Add aromatics for complexity and to provide water-soluble flavor compounds
   (this includes dashi elements). 

So, what happens when you make soup? Let's discuss in detail.

## Collagen Conversion to Gelatin

Connective tissue within an animal is made up of a molecule called *collagen*.
Collagen is a tight mesh protein that is not water-soluble that gives structure
to this tissue. Connective tissue is found in virtually all animal meats in
varying proportions. Under normal circumstances, collagen is rigid and
unpleasant to eat in large quantities; think the gristle in your steak, as an
example. 

But when collagen is introduced to prolonged heat, it undergoes a chemical
change where it effectively breaks down into gelatin. Gelatin, unlike collagen,
is water-soluble. Through cooking pieces of meat with collagen in water, that
collagen converts to gelatin and dissolves. 

Items that are collagen-rich tend to be muscles and parts of the animal that
serve multiple purposes: they can act as a barrier of some sort, need to move
often, or connect different tissues together. Feet, bones, tendons, ligaments,
skin, these items have loads of collagen. This does not mean you want to make a
soup entirely from these ingredients; you can certainly have too much gelatin in
your soup. 

When gelatin dissolves into water, several things happen: 

1. The gelatin molecules increase the viscosity of the liquid, as they attract
   water molecules and prevent their movement. Too much, and the gelatin causes
   the soup to almost feel sticky on the palate. Too little, and the gelatin
   doesn't attract enough water, making the soup feel thin and watery. 

2. When cold, the gelatin molecules link up to form a mesh of protein,
   entraining water. In ample quantities, this mesh can resist forces like a
   solid and retain its shape. It's meat Jello, basically. 

Controlling the gelatin content of soup is done by cooking the bones/tissue
appropriately to ensure full extraction and conversion, and that the right
amount of water is present in the soup before finalizing. You can also control
the gelatin content by using an appropriate amount of ingredients that are high
in collagen. 

Essentially, if your soup feels too watery, you simply need to reduce it or
include more bones/connective tissue in subsequent cooks. And if it feels too
thick, you can add water to it, or increase the ratio of water to bones in
subsequent cooks.

## Myoglobin Denaturation and Scum Formation

Myoglobin is a protein that gives the muscle its red color. Unlike other
proteins found in blood, myoglobin is water-soluble. You'll notice when soaking
bones or at the initial cooking of bones that the water turns a pinkish-ish hue.
This is myoglobin, not necessarily hemoglobin. All bones and tissue in the
animal parts contain some level of blood, so some hemoglobin will be there, but
most of what you're seeing is myoglobin.

As the temperature of the water increases, myoglobin undergoes denaturation
where the protein unwinds and links up. This linked up mesh of myoglobin
combines with other denatured proteins and conveniently floats to the top of the
soup. Chefs call this mix of proteins "scum," and often choose to skim it away.
Admittedly, skimming the scum may or may not be necessary. Most chefs I've
spoken to suggest that keeping scum can lead to an off appearance, darkening the
soup, and an off, almost metallic flavor. On the other hand, Daniel Gritzer at
Serious Eats suggests that by leaving the scum, [it improves the clarification
of the final soup, as debris invariably gets trapped in the mesh of proteins
floating on the surface][gritzer] {cite}`gritzer`, and has minimal impact on
color. 

In some applications, skimming the scum helps improve color. Over a long enough
time, particularly in a scenario where the soup is boiling vigorously, the scum
will turn brown and solubilize. Removing the scum can help preserve the color of
the final soup. For pork bones, you may wish to blanch or soak the bones
overnight, to remove myoglobin before cooking, as these bones produce more
myoglobin to skim than chicken parts. 

I almost always skim the scum. But there isn't a hard and fast rule here.

## Fat Rendering

Meat products contain fat, even in trace amounts. Animal fat melts at a
temperature much lower than boiling, though the specific melting temperature
depends on the fat in question. As the soup is cooked, rendered fat rises to the
top of the water and stays there until it is skimmed off or emulsified. You can
use this fat for later cooking purposes (see the Aroma Oil section), or discard.
The fat rendered in the soup making process contains all of the fat-soluble
flavor compounds extracted, so it will have a markedly different flavor than a
fat rendered on its own, which may or may not be desirable in the final bowl of
ramen. 

## Aroma and Flavor Extraction

The primary purpose of cooking ingredients in water, aside from dissolving
gelatin to improve body, is to add flavor to the liquid. Animal tissue has a TON
of trapped flavor. Flavor extraction from meat is directly related to the
temperature and time on which it is held. As meat and bones cook, the protein
within them denatures, squeezing out water and water-soluble flavor compounds,
which then solubilize surrounding soup. For many of these compounds, [the speed
and quantity of this extraction increase with increasing
temperature][perez-palacios_taste_2017] {cite}`perez-palacios_taste_2017`.
Chemical reactions generally increase in speed with temperature, so this is not
surprising.

Other aromatics, which generally refers to vegetables and herbs, also follow
this rule. Aromatics, however, do not take as long to release their flavor into
the liquid as meat-based ingredients do, as their cells generally break down
faster under conditions found in cooking. This is why onions and carrots will be
very soft after a few hours of cooking.  Applying heat also creates new
chemicals, or releases existing chemicals, that produce aromas. These aroma
producing compounds are only detected by our noses because they are volatile,
evaporating from the soup over time. Aromatic compounds don't really stop being
released (otherwise what would you be able to smell?), and they continue to
volatilize while the soup cooks. Unfortunately, there are only so many aromatic
compounds that can be released from the ingredients added. Release too much of
them, and you won't have much left to enjoy in the soup. A soup with onions
cooked for 6 hours will be far less oniony than one cooked for only an hour.
 
Depending on what you'd like your final soup to taste like, you can increase or
decrease the aromatics' cooking time accordingly. For brighter vegetable
flavors, cook them in the soup for less, for muted ones, cook them more. For
most applications, I've found that an hour at 88--93 °C (190--200 °F) is
sufficient to extract the aromatics' flavor compounds into the soup, though
chopping or dicing the aromatics further will rapidly increase the speed in
which your extraction occurs. Typically, I find large pieces, cooked in the soup
for an hour, is sufficient (and my recipes will mention the size desired for the
ingredients).  

One additional comment on aromatics: garlic is a unique ingredient in that,
depending on how the clove is prepared before cooking, [the pungency of the
flavor in the final soup changes][garlic_2014] {cite}`garlic_2014`. As garlic's
cell walls are ruptured via crushing or cutting, an enzyme in garlic called
"alliinase" is released, which converts alliin (the foundational flavor of
garlic) into allicin. Allicin is the compound that gives garlic its sharp,
sulfuric quality. Heat stops the activity of this enzyme, so you can effectively
control the sharpness of the garlic's flavor in your soup depending on the
treatment of the cloves before adding them to the soup. Put in whole, the enzyme
will have almost no activity, and so the flavor of the garlic will be much
milder. Crushed with the heel of a knife, the clove will experience some
enzymatic activity, and some sharpness will remain. If you completely obliterate
the garlic into a paste, the flavor will be sharp and intense. Getting the right
amount of garlic punch can be tricky though, as it's balanced by not only how
it's prepared, but how long it's cooked. Much like I mentioned earlier, cooking
aromatics like garlic for a long time causes many of their flavor compounds to
volatilize, making them gone for good.

In western cooking, particularly in French methods, flavor generation also
usually involves browning aromatics and meat first, then covering with water,
allowing the browned flavor to permeate the liquid as it cooks. In ramen making,
browning of aromatics and bones is extremely rare. To be honest, I don't know
why this is, but I feel that unbrowned soups tend to pair better with ramen
noodles. As a matter of preference, browning could be okay as a part of your
soup-making process. I just don't personally do it. 

Soup, therefore, represents one component used to create the flavor profile in
ramen, primarily from water-soluble flavors. All done primarily through boiling.
Soup might sound like it isn't doing anything very important at first, but it
is. Without soup, a lot of the potential water-soluble flavors produced by
vegetables and meats would be completely absent.

## Emulsification

I've been deliberately quiet about the difference between cloudy paitan and
clear chintan soups. It's all for a good reason, as there's a simple but big
difference: emulsification. Paitans are emulsifications, and chintans are not.
That's the key difference between the two. Mineral content, bone granules, none
of these explain why paitans are cloudy. It's purely due to the emulsified fat.

In most cases, the fat separates from water, but in ramen soups, it can be
effectively emulsified if the right compounds are present. When making ramen
soups, emulsification of the fat and water is allowed due to two classes of
ingredients: gelatin extracted from the animal products, and other additives not
added from cooked ingredients.

### Gelatin As An Emulsifier

Gelatin is the primary emulsifier in ramen. We've extracted a ton of it from the
animal parts, and thankfully it's a really good emulsifying agent. The fat in
paitans is dispersed into small, tiny, microscopic globules that the gelatin can
then latch onto and hold into solution. Because these globules of fat are so
small, they refract light, turning the soup opaque. 

Gelatin is not going to aggressively emulsify fat on its own. Rather, we need to
do something to generate the emulsion. This is not a simple task. Fat and water
are immiscible, as fat is hydrophobic as a non-polar liquid, so it attempts to
reduce its surface area in the presence of water. To achieve an emulsion, the
globules of fat need to be small enough that the attractive forces between fat
droplets are smaller than the repulsive forces caused by an emulsifier like
gelatin. That requires some energy.

There are two common methods to get the droplets small enough to emulsify: 

1. **Rapid Boil**: The most traditional method of achieving an emulsified paitan
   soup is to rapidly boil the contents of a pot. This rapid boil creates
   agitation, which, over time, turns the fat into tiny globules that can be
   suspended in the liquid.

2. **Using a Blending Device**: Hand blenders or jar-style blenders accomplish the
   same emulsification approach by ripping up the bubbles of fat into tiny, tiny
   sizes, that the gelatin can then latch onto. 

It's worth noting that, contrary to many recipes found online for paitans, you
do not need to whip the cooking liquid for the entire duration of the cooking
time. Gelatin, when given small enough droplets of fat and in ample enough
quantity, emulsifies the fat very quickly (in as little as 30 seconds in a
blender). So a slow-cooked soup that is relatively clear can be turned into a
paitan very quickly simply by whipping it with its fat in a blender. 

Gelatin is so good at emulsifying that soups meant to be clear, if accidentally
boiled, can become slightly cloudy very quickly. As a result, chintan soups
maintain more clarity when the contents of the pot are not agitated. I recommend
a temperature of around 88--91 °C/190--195 °F to avoid rapid bubbling that may
accidentally emulsify fat (more on the temperature in a moment).

### Other Emulsifiers: Starch and Protein Blending

For some soups, the stabilization of an emulsion, particularly at home, is
challenging because there isn't enough gelatin. Poorly emulsified soups can
result in a thick layer of fat on the surface of the soup, which can congeal
when cooling or sitting in the serving bowl. 

A blender does a wonderful job at emulsifying, but if you don't have enough
emulsifier, then no amount of agitation is going to get the emulsion you want.
Adding an emulsifier can help stabilize the emulsion without additional tools.
There are tons of these, from modernist ingredients like lecithin or gums that
trap residual water, to simple ones, like starches and protein sources. 

The easiest of these for home cooks to acquire is white rice. Rice is great
because it's cheap, readily available, and doesn't add flavor to the final dish.
The method itself is simple: add a few tablespoons of rice to your soup an hour
before blending. As the rice cooks, it releases starch, which traps residual fat
globules and helps suspend them in the water-based soup. But blending any
vegetable with some amount of starch can yield similar results. Potato is
another common addition, though the flavor is more noticeable. 

Protein slurries, such as blended meat scraps, can also provide similar
emulsification. Tenkaippin is known for this technique where they take cooked,
shredded, chicken thigh meat, and blend it into the soup until it's viscous and
emulsified. The tsukemen recipe listed here uses this technique.  

### Measuring Gelatin and Emulsion Quality

Maybe you're unsure if you've reached the desired amount of emulsification and
gelatin extraction. Fear not, you can measure the quantity of gelatin in your
soup via a few methods and tweak the results from there:

* **The Empirical Test**: Taste the soup. Does it feel full-bodied? Do you like the
  texture of it on your tongue? That's the gelatin and fat increasing the
  viscosity.

* **The Chill Test**: After cooking, let a sample of your final soup chill
  completely in the fridge. How firmly does the gel hold? A firmer gel is the
  result of more gelatin in solution. The downside is that this requires time
  for chilling. 

* **Check The Dissolved Solids Using A Refractometer**: This is a method used by
  large ramen chains and meticulous chefs to maintain consistency of the final
  soup. A refractometer effectively checks the amount of dissolved and
  emulsified solids in solution by measuring how much a solution refracts
  light. As the water becomes more viscous, it refracts more light. The most
  common scale of the measurement of dissolved solids in ramen is called
  "Brix," and most refractometers use this scale. It can be helpful, then, to
  check the viscosity of the solution in Brix, because the measurement scale is
  commonly used, and you can gain reference points for the degree of Brix you
  enjoy. This is the most accurate approach, but it requires expensive
  equipment. 

I prefer the first approach, simply because I like to cook in the moment. But if
I'm feeling particularly scientific, below are some Brix levels I like to hit,
based on the type of soup I'm making. This is all personal preference:

| Soup Use Case           | Chintan/Paitan | Brix |
|-------------------------|----------------|------|
| Sapporo Miso            | Chintan        | 2    |
| Tokyo Shoyu             | Chintan        | 4    |
| Chintan for Double Soup | Chintan        | 5    |
| Tonkotsu                | Paitan         | 6--8 |
| Chicken Paitan          | Paitan         | 6    |
| Tsukemen                | Paitan         | 11+  |

You'll notice that the paitans above have a higher Brix than the chintans. This
is because you require a sufficient amount of gelatin to create the emulsion in
a paitan. In a chintan, too much gelatin can be detrimental to the clarity (more
on this in a moment). 

## Cooking Soup: Many Approaches

For soups, the most common approach is to use a large stockpot to hold the
contents, and completely cover them with water, cooking over a burner at the
desired temperature until the soup is complete. For chintans, the soup is
delicately simmered, while paitans are rapidly boiled. In most restaurants,
cooks usually use either approach. Scaling soup to large quantities is a
not-so-trivial endeavor, and these methods work for making lots of soup.  

Using the knowledge mentioned earlier and this little bit of information, you
can make soup. However, it's not the only option, especially for home cooks. 

### Sous Vide

Sous vide is a relatively new and exciting option for some soup applications, as
the precise temperature controls ensure a very specific extraction. Particularly
for {ref}`dashi`, where some chefs demand specific temperatures, sous vide can
be useful. But this comes with some limitations. Namely, wand-style circulators
are not designed to circulate soup, only water. Circulating soup  can damage the
device and void the warranty. Other temperature-controlled technology, such as
thermometer assisted induction cooktops, can also work, but the equipment can
either be expensive (like the [Breville Control °Freak®][breville_control],
currently at $1,500 {cite}`breville_control`), or inaccurate. But they are
intriguing. 

Sous vide is very useful for a lot of other components in ramen, not just soup.
I'll describe how this technique can be useful for those applications later in
this book. While all of the recipes that use sous vide here will have the
details you need to get cooking, gaining some background knowledge on the
technique may also be helpful here and elsewhere. There are plenty of resources
out there. However, in my opinion, the best source of fundamental info on sous
vide can be found in Douglas Baldwin's book, "Sous Vide for the Home Cook"
{cite}`baldwin_book`. Baldwin is a friend and former colleague of Scott's, so
there is just a tinge of bias, but seriously it's absolutely worth a read.
[Baldwin's website][baldwin_practical] is also packed with useful information
{cite}`baldwin_practical`.

### Pressure Cooking

Recently, *pressure cookers* have become popular in the ramen scene to make soup.
I use a pressure cooker in almost all of my soup making. Pressure cookers build
pressure in a vessel via trapping the water vapor that is created during
boiling. As pressure rises in the pot, the boiling point of the water within
increases, and as this boiling point increases, the contents within the pot
cooks faster. Most pressure cookers hit around 15 psi of pressure or about one
additional bar. The general rule of thumb is that this amount of pressure
decreases cooking time by around 8-fold (this is just a rule of thumb, things
are actually more complex than this). This results in a substantial savings in
time. 

There is some dogma by ramen purists against pressure cooking due to the speed
in which soups can be completed in them. Shops that would slave away at a
tonkotsu all day can now complete these soups in a matter of hours. In my
experience, soups made in a pressure cooker are indistinguishable from those
made on the stovetop. I won't say they're perfectly identical, they probably
aren't. But I'm not sure if the difference is all that big. 

#### Pressure Cooker Substitution Approach

For recipes in this book, you'll need to replace the time spent cooking the meat
before adding aromatics with a reduced time under pressure. Pressure cookers
release pressure two ways, either through opening a valve and venting, which is
called a fast release, or by allowing the soup to cool with limited venting,
called a natural/slow release. Fast release introduces a negligible amount of
extra cooking time, but this isn't true during a slow release. If using a
natural/slow pressure release, the time spent during the release needs to be
included in the total cooking time, even though it isn't as impactful to the
cooking time as the cooking time under pressure. This might sound complicated,
but I've used a simple relationship between normal cook time, time under
pressure, and the pressure release time to produce consistent results:

$$
\textrm{Normal cook time} = 8 \times \textrm{Time under pressure} + \
   4 \times \textrm{Pressure release time}
$$

The release time depends on the manufacturer of the pressure cooker and can be
anywhere from 30 minutes to an hour. You'll need to experiment with your
pressure cooker to figure this out, but I assume that 30 minutes is pretty
standard. Using the formula is otherwise pretty simple. For instance, a soup
that takes 8 hours to cook will take 1 hour to cook under pressure using a fast
release, or 45 minutes under pressure with a 30-minute natural release. This
works well for both stovetop models and instant pot/electric models. Despite the
electric models holding slightly less pressure than stovetop models, I've found
similar results using both. 

Pressure cooking is a great alternative to making soup via traditional stovetop
methods. As shown here, there are massive time savings. A tonkotsu that would
normally take 18 hours now only takes as little as three hours, turning an
arduous project into an afternoon one. The only major consideration with
pressure cooking is how to avoid emulsification. Pressure cookers are prone to
create emulsions in two ways: 

1. During pressure buildup, pressure cookers boil the contents of the pot. If
   this buildup phase takes time, the contents of the pot can boil, and this
   boiling can suspend some amount of fat in the liquid.

2. Once the cook is done, if a fast release mechanism is applied, the contents
   of the pot will boil rapidly, also resulting in an emulsion. 

In some instances, such as with paitans, you may want this, because emulsion is
necessary. So the general rule of thumb is, for chintan soups, a natural release
is preferred over a fast release. For paitans, a fast release can jumpstart the
emulsion. 

## Soup Finalization and Storage

Once the soup is complete, it's important to either hold it hot or chill it
thoroughly and quickly. Soups are protein-rich aqueous solutions that bacteria
absolutely love, and can become prime places for pathogen growth. If the soup
sits in what the FDA calls "the danger zone" or a temperature between 5 and 60
°C (41 to 140 °F), bacteria have the opportunity to grow. During cooking, you'll
be far above 60 °C, but eventually, you'll need to cool the soup, and it will
cross into this threshold as it cools. If you're only making small batches of
soup, this isn't usually a problem, but for large volumes, cooling the soup fast
enough requires some extra thought. 

Modeling how the heat is removed from a container of soup relies on a lot of
factors, including the material the pot is made out of, the size of the pot, and
the amount of liquid in the pot, how the pot is covered, the surface it's
sitting on, etc. Even with all of those differences, we can find some good
strategies to cool soups quickly with a little science. Newton's law of cooling
helps with this understanding as an approximation of what's going on, and is
described by the following equation:

$$
\frac{\partial Q}{\partial t} = -hA\left(T(t) - T_{\mathit{env}}\right)
$$

No need to pull out the textbooks for this equation, we won't be solving it for
soup! You just need to know what the equation means. First, let's define the
variables. The left side of the equation represents the rate of heat transfer
from the soup to the environment. Meanwhile, on the right side of the equation,
$h$ is the heat transfer coefficient (a property affected by the materials
used), $A$ is the surface area, $T(t)$ is the temperature of the soup over time,
and $T_{\mathit{env}}$ is the temperature of the environment. Looking at this
equation, we get a few important concepts.

* The larger the difference in temperature is between the soup, $T(t)$, and the
  environment, $T_{\mathrm{env}}$, the more rapid heat will transfer. An ice bath
  is therefore an effective method to rapidly get the soup to cool without
  staying in the danger zone very long. So is using a freezer if you're being
  careful.

* Dividing soup into smaller volumes will increase the surface area exposed
  (increasing $A$). You can do this by pouring the soups into small quart style
  deli containers instead of keeping the soup in a single large container. Just
  dividing the soup into two containers instead of one will more than double the
  surface area, and therefore halve the cooling time.

* Keeping soup in conductive containers, as long as they're stored in cold
  places, will also allow them to cool faster (by increasing $h$). Stirring the
  soup in a cold environment will also cause the soup to cool more rapidly by
  increasing $h$ as well, though this might be less practical in the area you're
  trying to cool the soup in.

* Containers should be cooled in temperatures that are significantly lower than
  5 °C. The soup temperature, $T(t)$, is a function of time. As it decreases, so
  does the rate that heat is removed. If the temperature isn't sufficiently low
  enough, the soup will stay warm long enough to promote bacterial growth. [It's
  a really good idea to keep your refrigerator lower than 5 °C anyway][storage]
  {cite}`storage`.

Once the soups are cooled completely they're ready for use after reheating. So
far, I've found virtually no loss in quality after the soup has been reheated.
You can keep soups for up to a week in the fridge, or up to 6 months in the
freezer. 

## Cooking Times by Ingredient 

In general, the bones of birds are more porous than those of other land animals,
and thus they require less cooking. Below is a generalized time table for making
soups.  

| Ingredient                                | Stovetop (At 88 °C/190 °F or higher) | Pressure Cooker (at full pressure, 15 psi, assuming 10 quarts max capacity) |
|-------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Chicken (whole, backs, feet, all chicken) | 6 hours                              | 45 minutes (or 30 minutes with 30-minute natural release)                   |
| Pork neck bones                           | 8 hours                              | 1 hour (or 45 minutes with 30-minute natural release)                       | 
| Pork femur bones                          | 18 hours                             | Up to 2 hours                                                               |
| Fish                                      | 1 hour                               | 10 minutes                                                                  |


[gritzer]: https://www.seriouseats.com/2014/10/how-to-make-rich-flavorful-easy-chicken-stock.html
[perez-palacios_taste_2017]: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/10942912.2017.1291678
[garlic_2014]: https://lpi.oregonstate.edu/mic/food-beverages/garlic
[breville_control]: https://www.breville.com/us/en/products/commercial/cmc850.html
[baldwin_practical]: https://www.douglasbaldwin.com/sous-vide.html
[storage]: https://www.fda.gov/consumers/consumer-updates/are-you-storing-food-safely
