The Book of Ramen
=================

## Introduction

Thank you for reading this book! This has been a long time coming. Over the last
several years I have tinkered with the idea of making a book, to help everyone -
from hardcore ramen-lovers to those simply intrigued by interesting food - find
an all-inclusive resource of recipes and ideas on how to make ramen. I felt like
it would make sense to make this as widely accessible as possible. An e-book
format made the most sense, free for anyone to view at any time.

Many of you probably have never had ramen beyond the dry noodle packages found
regularly at your local grocery store. This book is not about that kind of
ramen, which is more akin to instant noodles. While tasty in its own right,
instant noodles aren't quite the same thing as the dish discussed in this book.
Ramen, a dish originating from Japan, is a complex soup that is challenging to
make and, even to this day, still has quite a bit of mystery. I'm hoping I can
at least break apart the ambiguity a little, primarily through discussing
concepts rather than solely relying on recipes.

As for the rest of you, I know what you are thinking. A book on ramen? That
sounds awfully specific. Who is this guy? Why should I even care? Why is an
American making ramen? Is this a poor man's Ivan Orkin?

Not exactly.

My name is Mike. I'm a food nerd who lives in Chicago, and I am particularly
obsessed with ramen. Most folks know me by the name "Ramen_Lord" on Reddit,
which is pretty ostentatious, I know. The username was tongue-in-cheek at first.
I thought I might post some of my creations to the ramen subreddit, /r/ramen,
have some fun in the process, and learn along the way. I did not, however,
expect my posts to catch on at all. And despite this, people started paying
attention.

But what sparked this weird obsession? In all sincerity, it was kind of a
coincidence. Many years before my interests really kicked in, I'd been studying
Japanese in highschool and college, eating ramen with some mild regularity.
Usually, I'd go out to a Japanese market in Chicago called Mitsuwa and splurge
on miso ramen. The bowls I had were good, but nothing that really sparked the
passion I had now. Driven by my interest in Japan, I stumbled on an opportunity
in college to move there as part of a study abroad program at Hokkaido
University. Naturally, I applied and was accepted to the program, where I moved
to Sapporo for a year. Coincidentally, miso ramen was designed, created, and
invented in that city. I thought, hey, I like Japanese food, and ramen is good,
I ought to get a taste of the real deal. I mean, surely, it must be better than
what I'd eaten before.

I tried a few bowls in touristy destinations like Ramen Yokocho. Felt fine.
Packed it up.

But it wasn't until a friend suggested I try out a shop named Sumire that my
total worldview on ramen changed. I remember the experience vividly: I climbed
some shambly metal stairs to the side of an office building in the drinking
district of Sapporo known as Susukino. I walked past a hanging curtain over the
door, and selected "miso ramen" from a ticket machine, sitting down, oblivious
to what would happen next.

What arrived was ethereal. A scalding hot bowl of rich intense miso and pork
soup, with punches of garlic and ginger and a slight tinge of spice. A blanket
of melted lard floating on top, trapping the soup's heat in the bowl. The
aggressively chewy, crinkly yellow noodles, the delicate sprinkling of thinly
sliced green onion, tender slices of braised pork. This was unlike ramen, no,
any food,I'd ever had. Prior, I'd assumed ramen was tasty junk food. With
Sumire, this whole idea of "kodawari", or obsession with quality, became obvious
to me.

All I could think was, "THIS is Sapporo's legacy!" I had to find more of the
stuff.

For the next year in Sapporo, I basically went out for ramen whenever I could. I
bought guide books, rented textbooks from the library, and asked friends for
recommendations. I even asked a teacher if I could do an independent study on
the dish. I started interviewing cooks and writing reviews of places. I made a
blog about the best shops. Ramen became my life in Sapporo, the city changed me.

After I'd left Sapporo, I had no choice. I had to start making ramen to satisfy
this craving I had built up. Most of my first bowls were just awful. The broth,
normally rich and complex, was a putrid mess. The noodles, complete mush. The
toppings, a bland and overcooked waste of ingredients. I expected something
different and was massively disappointed. Still, I persevered. I continued
making ramen for years after, desperately chasing the proverbial dragon, trying
to recreate something I had tasted that had transformed me.

When I started posting to /r/ramen, I felt compelled to make ramen more often
and share what I could. The community inspired me, as I kept running into other
ramen nerds who loved noodles, tiny shops, the broth's fat glistening on their
faces as they slurped to their heart's delight. I wanted to grow that community
and share that love. Over time, my ramen got better. I got better at plating. I
developed a better understanding of the dish. Through it all, I found my voice
and the direction I wanted to take my craft. Without the support from people in
the subreddit, to keep pushing myself and my knowledge, I wouldn't know half of
what I know today.

Today, ramen has effectively exploded with new recipes everywhere. Over the
years, I've developed more than 20 different recipes for various styles.
Although many of these recipes have been posted to Reddit, it's clear that
Reddit isn't an effective platform for consolidating all of the information
available.

So, here we are.

What can you expect from this book? Let's start with what this book is not. This
is not a history or anthropology book on ramen. Although I find the history of
ramen fascinating, several books have already been written on it to a level of
detail I couldn't realistically add to (Some good ones worth reading are
["Slurp, a Social and Culinary History of Ramen: Japan's Favorite Noodle Soup"
by Barak Kushner][slurp], and ["The Untold History of Ramen: How Political
Crisis in Japan Spawned a Global Food Craze" by George Solt][solt]
{cite}`kushner_slurp_2014,solt_untold_2014`).

And this isn't a cookbook, per se. There are many cookbooks out there for ramen.
Ultimately, this book is meant to break apart ramen into its five components and
explain them thoroughly, to help amateurs and cooks understand the components of
the dish, to better make more thoughtful composed bowls. There are many recipes
here, but they're only examples, archives of the work I've done over the last ten
years. They are by no means the be-all-end-all of ramen. I hope that by the
reading book, both amateurs and professionals alike will find a better
understanding of what ramen is made of so that they can go off and create
exceptional bowls.

So, welcome. Let's have some fun.


### Starting with the Basics: What is Ramen?

To understand what ramen is, I find it's easiest to break it down by its
components since ramen's broad historical definition is complex. Because each
component varies so tremendously, two bowls of ramen side by side might look
completely unrelated, but still fall under the same umbrella. Even with the
definitions I'll list, there are variations between the 5 components.

#### Component 1: Noodles

Noodles are a cornerstone of ramen. Ramen noodles are the most rigid in their definition
of the dish. All ramen noodles require some amount of the following ingredients:

1. **wheat**
2. **alkaline salts (kansui)**

No dish is truly ramen without these specific noodles. For me, the ratio of
these ingredients (and others) may vary, but the actual approach to making the
noodle for a home cook is basically the same.

#### Component 2: Soup

Soup is the other cornerstone of ramen. Except for a handful of soupless styles,
all ramen has soup. Japanese consumers overwhelmingly taste the soup first when
trying the dish, so the importance of balancing it and delivering it correctly
cannot be overstated. Soups range in complexity but can be generally broken down
into two categories:

1. **chintan**: these broths are clear, light, and delicate on the palate. This is
   the standard broth for most common styles. If you imagine a delicate consomme
   or chicken stock, this is right in line with that, similar to most stocks
   you'd find in western cooking

2. **paitan**: these flip western-style stock-making techniques on their head by
   rapidly boiling the contents in the pot. This process results in a cloudy,
   almost creamy consistency.

These broths can be broken down further, based on the viscosity, intensity of
flavor, additional additives, or ingredient choice, but the point is that soup
exists on a host of stages and styles.

#### Component 3: Tare

Tare is a potent sauce or paste that effectively seasons the bowl; without tare,
the soup has no salt. Tares often contain flavor compounds to add additional
complexity and umami. Tares are numerous and range in style, but they typically
fall into three broad categories depending on the primary ingredient used:

* **shoyu (soy sauce)**: The original tare. Soy sauce was paramount to the
  proliferation of ramen in Japan, providing not only high levels of salinity,
  but also glutamic acid, a compound responsible for the illustrious "umami".
  Umami, being another one of the tastes our tongues recognize along with salt,
  sweet, bitter, and sour, is described as having a "savory" or "meaty" quality.
  Soy sauce allowed umami to be easily incorporated in the dish and was a
  familiar flavor to Japanese diners.

* **shio (salt)**: Not to suggest this tare is simply made of salt, but merely
  that it doesn't contain soy sauce. It still usually includes a host of other
  umami-rich ingredients, like dried seafood or kombu, a dried kelp product
  common in Japanese cuisine.

* **miso**: a newcomer to the tare style, miso is a thicker tare using the
  namesake miso. Unlike the other two tares above, this one tends to add body to
  the broth. Miso, being a fermented soy product like soy sauce, is loaded with
  umami.

#### Component 4: Toppings

Toppings are perhaps the component of ramen with the most versatility. They
create the ultimate visual impact of the bowl.

Toppings tend to fall into several categories:

* **proteins**: The most common variant of this is chashu (a braised pork roast,
  typically made from belly or shoulder), but chicken or fish products are also
  not unheard of. Other non-meat-based proteins, such as soft boiled eggs, are
  also common. Regardless, virtually all ramen has some form of protein as a
  topping.

* **aroma boosters**: Toppings are often used as an ingredient that boosts aroma, or
  enhances the flavor of the soup and noodles. Onion, typically some kind of
  scallion, are used often. Alliums, the family of plants that onions, garlic,
  and scallions belong to, contain a compound called MMP, which resembles savory
  and meaty flavors. As a rule of thumb, your ramen should use some onion.
  Alliums of all sorts will work as aroma boosters, but other fragrant plants,
  like grated ginger or chilies, can also provide complexity and aroma.

* **texture providers**: Without this, ramen is missing texture contrast. Menma,
  which are cured and sweetened bamboo shoots, is a common example, as they are
  crunchy in texture. Texture can also be provided in things like bean sprouts,
  cabbage, corn, wood ear mushrooms, or any other snappy, firm, crunchy things.


#### Component 5: Aroma Oil

If tare is the most secretive component of ramen, aroma oil is easily the most
overlooked, particularly outside of Japan. Fat is a critical component of
ramen's taste; it provides mouthfeel, gloss, visual appeal, and transports
fat-soluble flavors. Modern ramen shops diligently control the fat content of
their final dishes, often adding additional fat that has been cooked with
aromatic items like alliums, vegetables, or other aromatic ingredients. Animal
fats are most common, though vegetable oils can also be used.

Those are the main components of ramen. In this book, I've dedicated a chapter
to each component, and then a final chapter dedicated to particular styles,
their assembly, and which components they use. The goal ultimately is to
understand the nuances and methods of each component, so that as you get
comfortable, you can swap between specific components based on personal
preference. Over time I hope you'll be inspired to create ramen that aligns with
your style and tastes.


### A Note on Measurement

While there is an element of preference involved in ramen (and in all food),
ramen can be an art in precision. Sometimes units like cups and ounces aren't
precise enough to consistently create the intended bowl of noodles. So, as a fan
of consistency, all of the units for measurement will be in metric (using
English units as an occasional backup). As you'll soon discover, grams and
milliliters will be precise enough for what's needed for making noodles.
Truthfully, the metric system, more formally known as the International System
of Units, is king, and I plan to stay true to that mantra. Also metric is just
so much easier to deal with. Like, get it together America.

If you're going to be making the recipes in this book, you will need a scale,
preferably one that has at least 1 g precision (and for noodles, you'll want one
preferably that goes to 0.1 g). I use the [OXO good grips][oxo_scale] 5 lb scale
for most measurements, and for noodles, I use a small [jeweler's
scale][jewelers_scale] that measures within 0.1 g precision
{cite}`oxo_scale,jewelers_scale`. Scales have wide-ranging applications in your
kitchen, even outside of ramen. Everything from cookies, pies, cakes, breads,
and stir-fries are just so much more consistent when you start weighing some of
the ingredients you put in your food.

That doesn't mean volumes are pointless though. Volumes play an important role
in cooking, like for measuring liquids in large quantities where precision is
less important, as well as being helpful when assembling ramen. Mass, by
contrast, works much better for measuring more precise amounts of liquids and
for measuring virtually any solid. Scott argues that volumes can be measured
precisely, and he is right... but am I really going to ask anyone to buy a bunch
of (expensive!) pipettes to make ramen? Probably not. Scott thinks it could be
worth it anyway. Scientists, I swear.


### Common Abbreviations for Units of Measure

| Abbreviation | Unit                  |
|--------------|-----------------------|
| mL           | millilter             |
| L            | Liter                 |
| in           | inch                  |
| cm           | centimeter            |
| g            | grams                 |
| mg           | milligrams            |
| lb           | pounds                |
| oz           | fluid ounces          |
| °F           | degrees Fahrenheit    |
| °C           | degrees Celsius       |
| tbsp         | tablespoon            |
| tsp          | teaspoon              |

[slurp]: https://www.amazon.com/Slurp-Social-Culinary-History-Ramen/dp/9004269274
[solt]: https://www.amazon.com/Untold-History-Ramen-Political-California-ebook/dp/B00J2RT9PO/
[oxo_scale]: https://www.amazon.com/OXO-1157100-Digital-Scale-Black/dp/B0020L6T7K
[jewelers_scale]: https://www.amazon.com/American-Weigh-Scales-AWS-600-BLK-Nutrition/dp/B000O37TDO/ref=psdc_678508011_t1_B06Y61YW7S