# Mayu

Mayu is a very dark, almost black, aroma oil commonly used in southern-style
tonkotsu based ramen, particularly from the Kumamoto region. It achieves this
look from finely ground cooked vegetables that are used, not from the oil
necessarily. It has a bitter, slightly acrid taste, and should be used sparingly
for visual contrast and aromatic complexity. Many approaches exist, but I use a
very simple one with just garlic and fat. Adding scallion or regular onion is
not a bad idea, however. 

While it might appear like it at first glance, none of the vegetables used in
mayu dissolve in this process; they still contain a lot of insoluble solids.
Like the emulsion found in a paitan, mayu is also a colloid, which is the
technical term for a mixture where one material is uniformly dispersed in
another, but doesn't dissolve in the suspending material. The difference between
mayu and an emulsion is what is being dispersed. In an emulsion, a liquid is
dispersed in a liquid. In mayu, a solid is dispersed in a liquid. Otherwise,
several of the same concepts I mentioned earlier apply here. Much like
emulsions, to make a stable mayu, you need to make the dispersed particles (in
this case the cooked solids) very small so that they become indefinitely
suspended in the oil. Making sure your ingredients are dry helps with this.
Moisture both prolongs the frying process and results in soggier fried
vegetables that are more difficult to grind. This recipe accounts for this with
a two-staged approach. 

Some recipes online suggest using a food processor or blender, but I've found
this ends up making a paste that splits over time rather than a uniform oil
that's black throughout. Combining the ingredients with a mortar and pestle has
worked the best for me. If you have a suribachi (a Japanese mortar and pestle)
that's even better; the ridges are really effective at breaking down the
vegetables into a fine paste. But any bowl and mashing tool (like a muddler
even) will work well. 

## Ingredients
 
* 15 cloves of garlic
* 60 mL oil (approx. 0.25 cup). I used equal parts sesame, vegetable oil, and
  lard. 100% lard is nice, but it'll firm up at room temperature.

## Steps

1. Take the garlic cloves and throw them into a food processor. Process until
   finely minced (around 1/8th inch pieces). You can also mince finely by hand,
   though avoid turning the garlic into a paste.

2. Spread the mince on a paper towel and squeeze as much moisture out as
   possible. Replace paper towels until little to no moisture escapes. This is
   going to help you dry your mince out when you cook it, and that's important
   for suspending the particulate in the oil at the end.

3. Heat your oil on the stove, and when warm, add your aromatics. You can test
   this by throwing a small amount of your garlic into the oil and seeing if it
   sizzles. 

4. Cook, on medium to medium-high heat, stirring constantly, until the garlic
   takes on a dark brown, almost black color, and the oil begins to smoke,
   around 15--20 minutes. 

5. Strain the solids, reserving the oil, and then lay the solids on more paper
   towels to remove excess oil. This is once again to keep things as dry and
   brittle as possible. You should be left with garlic pieces that you can
   crumble into dust between your fingers.

6. Add your solids only to a mortar and pestle, and mash until the oil within
   them begins to escape and the contents turn into a uniform paste. This takes
   around 5 minutes. 

7. Once the paste is smooth, with no visible grit, add the reserved oil from
   step 6 to thin the mayu to your liking and mix fully. 
   
8. Store in an airtight container until ready to use. If not using immediately,
   keep in the fridge for up to 6 months. 
