# Noodle Ingredients

Despite the ingredient list being small, the details of each ingredient
contribute substantially to noodle quality. In this section, we'll go over the
science and importance of each of these ingredients.

## Wheat

Wheat flour is the primary source of starch and protein in all ramen noodles and
is a requirement for ramen to exist. This isn't just for definition either. Both
starch and protein (gluten) in the flour play vital roles in the design of a
noodle. 

Wheat starch provides the majority of the structure to the noodle. If noodles
could be compared to a brick house, think of the starches as the bricks
themselves. They do all of the heavy lifting. As starch is introduced to water,
it hydrates, taking on the water and swelling, resisting compression and
tension. In close enough proximity with other starch granules, the starch gels,
forming a tight network of tough macromolecules that bump into each other. This
starch gel has a pleasant texture, particularly if the gel is uniform (and more
on how to achieve this in the method section of this chapter).

The other component is gluten. Wheat gluten, in particular, is composed of two
proteins; gliadin and glutenin. When water is added to flour and the flour is
agitated (mixing, kneading, stretching, etc.) these two proteins combine by a
chemical reaction known as crosslinking to form the elastic mesh of gluten.
Gluten, in the brick house analogy, is the mortar, gluing the load-bearing
starches together in a matrix of protein. Those air bubbles you see in bread?
They were trapped by a gluten reinforced starch matrix. Without gluten, noodles,
let alone most wheat-based foods, would have a very different appearance.
Different levels of protein in the flour will change how much or how little
gluten is developed in the noodle.

Gluten's structure both allows the starches to gel properly, gives the noodles
additional tensile strength, and also makes them take on more water repulsive
(hydrophobic) properties. Extremely developed gluten will dramatically increase
the cooking time of noodles as a result, and result in firm, difficult to work
with noodles. 

Other components of flour that impact ramen noodles are: 

* **ash content**: Ash content describes the mineral content of flour. Typically,
  the majority of the minerals in flour come from the bran or germ, which is one
  of many reasons why whole wheat flour, which includes all the bran and germ,
  is touted as healthier than white flour. Ash is typically described as a
  percentage of total mass and is often less than a full percentage point. Ash
  has a few effects on noodles, but generally speaking, the higher the ash
  content, the harder the flour will be to make ramen with, without adding
  water. These minerals indicate trace pieces of bran and germ are leftover,
  which impact gluten formation. Luckily, most bread flours and all-purpose
  flours in the US have a low ash content, and it's much more likely that you'll
  have a tough time finding high ash flour (if you so choose) than low. Most
  white flour in the US is around 0.5% ash, which is suitable for ramen making.
  Advanced, ramen-specific flours, can often go as low as 0.35% ash. Conversely,
  that doesn't mean that high ash flour can't be used for ramen; sometimes it
  can. But the lower ash helps with making the noodles easier to work with. 

* **moisture content**: Flour absorbs moisture from the surrounding air, meaning
  that the amount of water you can add to it can change depending on the
  humidity and time of year. Flour also contains some natural moisture as a
  plant-derived product. This has to be accounted for when making noodles. More
  on this later.

* **wheat varietal**: Different strains of wheat have different characteristics,
  the biggest of which is the protein content. Most varieties of wheat fall into
  either "hard" or "soft" categories, which means essentially high protein and
  low protein, respectively. For ramen, I prefer hard wheat-based flours. If
  you're trying to be particular about the protein percentage, it should be
  available as well. When in doubt, contact the manufacturer to understand how
  good a particular flour is at developing gluten. As a rule of thumb, flour
  with available protein is often called "bread flour" because it provides
  strong, extensible protein. 

```{note}
It's worth noting that protein percentage doesn't completely predict how readily
gluten will form (all other things equal), as different cultivars of wheat can
create different protein compositions. Some wheat varietals form more or less
gluten than others because their composition of gliadin and glutenin isn't
equal. So, protein makeup can be different between varieties even if the protein
percentage is identical. For example, a hard red winter wheat flour may have the
same protein percentage as a hard red spring wheat, but the hard red winter
wheat will develop gluten more readily because its composition permits it.
```

* **milling size**: The actual size of the granules of flour has an impact on how
  quickly and easily a flour will absorb water. As an example, a common form of
  flour in Italy is "00" (double-O) flour, which is an extremely finely milled
  flour. Using this flour in place of all-purpose flour, you'll notice that you
  need upwards of 20% less water to hydrate. For simplicity's sake, I use
  standard milled flours in the US, but the milling size does have an impact. 

As you get more accustomed to making noodles, it's a good idea to consider the
above components when selecting which flour you'd like to use. But to start,
keep it simple; bread flour works very well. I like to use *King Arthur bread
flour* because the protein content is around 12.7% the weight of the flour, and
the flour gives consistent results. Most of the recipes for noodles in this book
will use this flour. As you get more comfortable, feel free to adjust flours. 

## Kansui

Kansui is a catchall term for the alkaline salts used to increase the pH of the
water and impact the gluten and structure of the noodle {cite}`mcgee_for_2010`.
Gluten's structure is impacted by the pH of the environment it's in. This
interaction is not entirely understood in the food science community, but from
an empirical standpoint, the effect is well known. [As alkaline (or higher pH)
environments are introduced, gluten's rigidity and tensile strength
increases][gennadios_effect_1993] {cite}`gennadios_effect_1993`, leading to
noodles that need more force to snap, but also aren't able to stretch as much.
Kansui, therefore, contributes to the difficulty in making noodles, as the
alkaline environment may make the noodles more difficult to roll and press.
Kansui also aids in changing the color of the dough from white to slightly
yellow, as the alkaline environment causes [unique compounds in the flour called
"flavonoids" to detach, turning yellow][mcgee_for_2010] {cite}`mcgee_for_2010`.
Yellow color and brightness of noodles have been shown to increase with higher
pH, however introducing pHs that are too high may compromise the noodle quality
by making them tough and less enjoyable {cite}`moss_effect_1986`. Kansui also
gives ramen noodles their characteristic taste, a sort of eggy, slightly
sulphuric flavor (which sounds off-putting, I know, but it works).

Several different salts can be considered kansui. In American kitchens, the most
common salts are sodium carbonate and potassium carbonate. While these might
sound intimidating, they're pretty easy to get, particularly sodium carbonate.
Apart from buying sodium carbonate under the name, "soda ash", you can make
sodium carbonate at home. The same method also applies to potassium carbonate.
The full method I use goes as follows:

### Ingredients

* 500 g sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) or potassium bicarbonate 

### Steps

1. In a small saucepan, dump in the powder and heat over medium heat, stirring
   constantly

2. The contents of the pot may initially become liquid-like, as it flows easily.
   While it heats, small geysers of gas will erupt from the surface. It will
   look like it's boiling.

3. Eventually, this action will subside after around 15 minutes, and the powder
   will become difficult to stir. At this stage, remove the pot from the heat,
   cover, and allow it to cool. 

4. You can optionally now weigh the final powder. You should be left with
   approximately 330--350 g powder, around 66% the original weight. 

5. Transfer the powder to a container and store indefinitely in the pantry. 

What's happening here: the heat causes the bicarbonate to become carbonate,
water, and CO<sub>2</sub>, where the latter two evaporate off while the cation
(sodium or potassium) is nonreactive here. The gas you're seeing is mostly water
like you'd see when boiling water, except it's being created by a chemical
reaction, not just by adding heat to water. Eventually this stops and the
texture changes once all of the bicarbonate is converted. 

Conversely, [Harold McGee has discussed creating sodium carbonate in the
oven][mcgee_for_2010], baking the powder on a sheet tray at 121 °C/250 °F for an
hour {cite}`mcgee_for_2010`. This method takes longer and is harder to judge
when it is complete, but can be effective. 

Sodium carbonate and potassium carbonate have different effects on the dough at
a subtle level. Typically in my experience:

* sodium carbonate results in a chewier texture in the final noodle
* potassium carbonate results in a firmer, more taut texture

Both affect gluten's structure but in different ways. Though this interaction
isn't very well understood (much like how we don't quite know why pH impacts
gluten's rigidity), I spoke with Dr. Eric Schulze, the Senior Scientist at
Memphis Meats on the matter. Here's what he guesses might be the reason for this
effect:

> Flour with removed cations hydrates rapidly, so the gluten network forms
> rapidly too. The potassium ions, being more reactive than sodium ions, would
> then proceed to further "protect" the gluten network from other negative
> charges, allowing for it to scrunch up tight and stiff." 

In other words, potassium does a better job of latching on to gluten molecules
than sodium. This is JUST a possibility, not proven beyond evidence from my
kitchen and some discussion from manufacturers. But the rule seems to apply: If
you want a less firm noodle, use more sodium, if you want a more firm noodle,
use more potassium.

Kansui can be found in both liquid and dry forms. To me, dry is both easier to
use and easier to come by. It also gives you flexibility in adjusting the
alkaline content without having to fiddle with how much water you need to add.
Basically, it makes the math easier. I don't have to do algebra to understand
the relative water content of the liquid alkaline solution. I simply add a
weight percentage to the ingredients. My all-purpose sweet spot is to use around
1--2% the weight of the flour in the recipe, but your taste may differ, and
changes in hydration or flour type may warrant different kansui amounts. 

## Water

Pretty much all noodles use water, and ramen noodles are no exception. Water is
the basis by which flour becomes dough. But, there's a small problem. Most tap
water in the United States is loaded with dissolved minerals (i.e. it's
considered "hard"). These minerals impact the dough's ability to hydrate and can
impact pH adjustment. For ultimate control, *use distilled water when making the
dough*. Some manufacturers, like Sun Noodle, [use pure water in their
processing][sun_made] for this very reason {cite}`sun_made`.

Ramen noodles are distinct from other doughs in that the amount of water added
to them (described as the "hydration" or "hydration percentage"), is noticeably
low. In most ramen applications, hydration spans anywhere from 22% to 42% the
weight of the dry flour solids. By contrast, most bread doughs start at about
60% hydration. This means that the treatment of the dough is noticeably
different (and I'll discuss this more thoroughly when I cover the methods)
because the dough is much more difficult to work with. 

What does water actually hydrate then? Other resources [discuss this in more
detail if you want to go down the rabbit hole][water_absorption]
{cite}`water_absorption`, but I'll only mention the most important ones here. 

* **Gluten**, the foundational protein in wheat that develops much of the structure
  of the noodle, does not develop without water, and so water is critical.

* The **starches** in the flour. These starches take up additional water as they
  cook, but much like all starches, the water causes them to swell and become
  malleable. 

* **Pentosans**. Similar to starches, these molecules are polysaccharides. However,
  they differ in that they are made up of only five-carbon sugars (i.e.
  pentoses), not six-carbon sugars like glucose. They also take up some of the
  water. These tend to be found in very small quantities, and are usually
  controlled by manufacturers, but they can increase the thirstiness of the
  dough. In my experience, I have not paid much attention to these. 

Broad effects that water has on the dough as hydration increases include: 

1. **more workability of the dough**: As flour is hydrated, the dough becomes
   softer, more supple, and easier to work with. Ramen noodles with more water
   will be easier to roll and cut than those with less water. In this book, I
   err on the side of caution with higher hydration doughs. 

2. **rapid development of gluten**: Gluten forms more readily in higher-hydration
   environments. As ramen noodles are low hydration, however, it's unlikely that
   full gluten development occurs (not all of the gluten is hydrated). This
   means that to develop a sufficient amount of gluten in a ramen noodle, you
   need less initial gluten in a dough with a lot of water, than one with less.
   As an example, the tsukemen recipes in this book are so well hydrated that
   the gluten forms very readily, and so the recipe doesn't require high gluten
   flour at all. This developed gluten, as mentioned in the flour, also improves
   the noodle's ability to maintain its structure in the hot soup. 

3. **more likely to hold a curl**: because the gluten in higher hydration doughs is
   more hydrated and active, the gluten is more prone to developing structure
   and in turn denaturing during cooking.

4. **more even cooking**: as the starches hydrate, they essentially give a jumpstart
   during the cooking process, allowing for a more even starch gel and a less
   noticeable starchy core. 

Broadly, a general rule of thumb is that as noodles become thicker, hydration
increases, and as noodles become thinner, hydration decreases. A summary of this
relationship provided by [Yamato][fuke_how_2018] {cite}`fuke_how_2018` is also
worth referencing. In their opinion, thicker noodles tend to have more water,
and less protein, while thinner noodles tend to have less water, and more
protein. 

I also mentioned earlier that flour also has moisture. Despite being "dry," all
flour contains some small amount of water. And that isn't surprising. Water has
a high affinity for lots of different compounds. It's often nearly impossible to
scrub all of the water from plant and animal products, and flour isn't any
different. This can make things tricky too. Flour's water content differs
significantly by season, as dry climates will have less water readily available
in the atmosphere for the flour to absorb. Conversely, humid climates will have
more water in the air. In most baking, this distinction isn't very noticeable,
but in ramen making, because the amount of water you add to the dough is
relatively low and precise, each percentage point matters. Of course, an easy
way to limit variability is by storing your flour in a cool, dry, place, as
often as possible, limiting its exposure to air. But, if you find yourself
making a lot of baked goods (and hopefully noodles!), a good rule of thumb is to
increase the hydration of the dough by 1--2 percentage points more than you would
normally. All that considered, if you find your dough still isn't quite coming
together, and you're making more than one portion of dough, add a few additional
grams of water. Won't hurt.


## Other Ingredients Worth Discussing

### Salt

That's right, good old sodium chloride. Salt performs a similar, but different,
function to alkaline salts on the structure of the dough. [Sodium ions from the
salt help the gluten retain rigidity, prevent overhydration, and increase your
ability to mix the dough without over-developing gluten][michaelides_technical_2008]
{cite}`michaelides_technical_2008`. Sodium carbonate would also contribute to
this by providing sodium, but it being alkaline salt it serves a different
chemical function. Salt also adds flavor to the dough. In all recipes I use, I
add 1% the weight of the flour/dry solids in salt.
 
### Egg White

The albumen of egg whites contains a mixture of protein that denatures (that is,
it changes shape and physically weaves with other albumen molecules to form a
sturdy matrix) These proteins only denature under intense shearing (like
whipping with a whisk) or through heat (like when cooking an egg in a pan).
Technically the action between these two examples is different, but the main
point is that egg white protein is harder to link up than gluten via physical
agitation. 

Egg whites, therefore, help with the texture of the noodle by providing some
chewiness, but without creating elasticity when raw. Egg white also increases
the cooking time of the noodle, as egg white absorbs additional energy when it
undergoes a phase transition from uncooked to cooked. For ultimate control, I
prefer powdered egg white, since the amount here is consistent, but fresh egg
white can also be used, you'll just need to adjust the water in your dough
accordingly. Egg white is made up of around 90% water, so using the weight of
the egg white, decrease your water by 90% of the weight of your egg white.
Assume the 10% is the weight of the solids. 

### Additional Gluten (in the form of vital wheat gluten)

While vital wheat gluten (that is, gluten isolated from the wheat) isn't quite
the same as the gluten found naturally in flour, it can still provide extra
structure. For really chewy noodles, I prefer to add some form of gluten, in
addition to using high-gluten flour, to get the total gluten content even higher
in the dough. Most vital wheat gluten is approximately 75% protein, so I make my
substitutions accordingly. (Adding 1 g adds 0.75 g of protein). 

### Yellow Food Coloring (typically riboflavin or gardenia based pigment)

Kansui does change the color of the dough somewhat, but for more color, I add a
food dye. Riboflavin in trace amounts dissolved in the water amps up that yellow
color. Several manufacturers use riboflavin as a dye to change the color of
their noodles, and you can see this on the back of the packaging as part of the
ingredients. You can use other dyes (some manufacturers use gardenia-derived
dye), but this is pretty much optional. If you want extra color, this is the way
to go. 

### Tapioca Starch

Much like gluten and egg white, some ramen manufacturers add tapioca starch to
their dry ingredients. I find the texture to be more snappy than chewy, so I
tend to avoid using it. But some shops rely heavily on tapioca starch,
especially shops in Kitakata. I find that no more than 10% replacement of flour
is acceptable.

### Rice Flour

Rice flour is an interesting addition in that it increases slipperiness on the
palate, due to the amylose rice naturally contains. I find that no more than 10%
replacement of flour is acceptable.

### Flavor Enhancements

Some shops will add flavoring agents directly to the noodle dough, such as
spices or powders. Green tea, chili powder, cumin, there are many options for
creativity. This book doesn't give specific recipes for these, but in general,
an addition of 1% or less is usually sufficient to enhance the flavor of the
noodle without changing its texture or workability. 

### Adjunct Grains

Some noodle makers opt to add various grains to introduce new flavors. Whole
wheat, rye, and buckwheat are all options, though spelt and ancient grains can
also be additions, depending on the chef's creativity. Ivan Ramen is famous for
using rye in particular. In general, these grains inhibit gluten formation and
can be detrimental to the final structure of the noodle. I opt for no more than
10% replacement of flour with these additions for this reason. You may be
noticing a pattern here. 

### Malt

Traditionally in bread baking, some amount of malted barley is added to the
flour to promote rapid fermentation; the malt provides readily available sugars
that yeast can munch away on. As a result, some flours, particularly bread
flours, include specific amounts of malt to be used during fermentation. This
has less of an impact on ramen, which is not fermented, but the resulting noodle
can have a slight slippery quality (like rice flour imparts) due to the higher
amylose content. Malt also gives the noodles a tanner appearance. I personally
wouldn't add malt directly to the flour, but you can buy higher malt flours if
you like the effect this provides.

## Final Noodle Ingredient Remarks

Having said all of that, the ratios you use for these ingredients can greatly
impact the noodle. An adjustment of 1--2 percentage points in weight can have a
measurable impact, something I've found when comparing results done with
different types of flour, water, and kansui. Precision is important in the
noodle-making process. As mentioned earlier, a scale is really important for
accurate ramen noodle-making. All noodle recipes in this book will use weight
measurement. While other recipes in this book will contain weights of some kind,
they're much more flexible in interpretation, but noodle making probably needs
the scale the most. Unlike measuring cups and tablespoons, the amount of error
here is reduced dramatically when using a scale. Factors like how airy your
flour is (was it sifted before? Has it been sitting around awhile?) can change
how much a "cup" of flour is. Don't believe me? Measure out a cup of flour, then
tap the cup on a table a few times. Notice how the cup of flour sinks below the
lip of the cup? What you measured can differ dramatically based on how you fill
the cup. Also, the regulation on cup size is extremely loose. A volumetric cup
can be up to ±12% in size. So even your different measuring cups may give you
different amounts of flour from person to person. By contrast, 100 g of flour
weighed today, or next week, will consistently be the same amount of flour. 

Finally, there is no combination of ingredients that works for every noodle. As
an example, noodle thickness can also dictate how much gluten you want to
develop. Thicker noodles with a lot of gluten can end up being overly chewy and
incapable of cooking fully. Gluten also increases the cooking time of the
noodle, which may be problematic for thicker noodles. This can be a process of
trial and error. To save on time, I've adjusted the noodle recipes accordingly
to my preferences. 

Lastly, I would be remiss to say that the Yamato group has done an extensive
amount of research on the effects of pressing, cutting technique, and aging of
noodles and their scientific approach has shed new light on many of the topics
above. [Their content is always worth having a look][yamato] {cite}`yamato`.


[gennadios_effect_1993]: https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/jf00035a006
[mcgee_for_2010]: https://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/15/dining/15curious.html
[sun_made]: https://sunnoodle.com/our-noodles/how-theyre-made/
[water_absorption]: https://bakerpedia.com/processes/water-absorption/
[fuke_how_2018]: https://www.yamatonoodle.com/noodle-master-labs/how-to-make-hakata-tonkotsu-ramen-noodles/
[michaelides_technical_2008]: https://www.bakersjournal.com/technical-talk-a-study-of-salt-916/
[yamato]: https://www.yamatonoodle.com/