# Making Noodles

Now that we know the main ingredients, how do you combine them to make noodles?
The methods are almost if not just as important as the ingredient selection. 

To illustrate the method, we'll start by going over the primary steps.

The following process is derived from several methods I've seen, both from
professional manufacturers as well as from other amateurs. For noodles with high
hydration (above 36% the weight of the flour being used), this method works
quite well. 

```{note}
As of this writing, I've yet to be able to make a noodle
consistently with hydration below 36% at home. Industrial manufacturers in Japan
can buy specialty flours that are milled finer, which can absorb less water and
can purchase expensive presses that can apply a very large amount of pressure to
the dough. Home cooks rarely have access to this kind of flour or technology.
For the sake of the recipes in this book, all hydration amounts will be 36% or
more.
```

## Step One: Ingredient Prep

Before we even do any form of mixing, we need to get our ingredients in order. I
like to combine all of my ingredients into two separate mixes. 

### "dry" ingredients

* wheat
* wheat gluten 
* egg white powder or egg powder
* other additives like chili powder, matcha powder, etc.

### "wet" ingredients

* water 
* alkaline salts (kansui)
* salt
* riboflavin or food dye (gardenia-based pigment is common in Japan) 
* other additives (Some folks add alcohol or sorbitol as a preservative, I
  don't. Fresh eggs would also be included here.) 

Weigh out and combine the dry ingredients, either in the bowl of a stand mixer
with the paddle attachment, or a food processor with the processing blade.

In a separate vessel, weigh out your water. 

There is a particular way I add other wet ingredients to the water:

* **First, add alkaline salts**: Alkaline salts, particularly sodium carbonate, form
  small bonds and clump together if added to water quickly {cite}`fujii`. These clumps
  prevent dissolution. The easiest way to avoid this problem is to add each salt
  one at a time, slowly, in an even stream, while stirring the water
  continuously. The water will start cloudy, but eventually turns back to fully
  transparent with enough stirring. If the salts do clump, they'll still
  eventually dissolve, it just takes longer to stir into solution.

* **Next, add (sodium chloride) salt**: This salt will take a bit more time to
  dissolve. Be patient, it will fully dissolve eventually.

* **Finally, add colors or additives**: Riboflavin in powdered form will take even
  longer to dissolve. It's just not very water-soluble. Just keep stirring.

Once you've combined the wet and the dry, you're ready to start making the dough!

## Step Two: Partial Hydration

Unlike with Italian pasta, ramen dough is pretty low in hydration. This means it
is of the utmost importance that the flour is hydrated evenly, so that the dough
comes together easily later on, particularly for the home cook. If you're making
the dough by hand or using a standing mixer, splitting the addition of water
into parts will help assure that the dough is evenly hydrated. 

In a vessel like a bowl or standing mixer, mix the dry ingredients for around 30
seconds to aerate them and make sure the dry ingredients are combined
thoroughly. For me, this is "stir" on the standing mixer.

While the mixer is running on this lowest speed, add around 2/3rds of the wet
ingredients in a slow and even stream. At first, it's going to look clumpy,
messy, and uneven. But stir for around 3 minutes, it'll start to combine into a
sandy texture. Sand is good. Sand is great.  

## Step Three: Remaining Hydration

Once the dough has that sandy, even texture, you can add your remaining liquid.
As done before, I like to add the remaining liquid in a slow even stream. 

At this stage, let the mixer run, but keep an eye on the time. If you mix too
much, the gluten will be so active that the dough won't come together easily. So
I like to mix for *no more than a minute*. As the mixer runs, the dough will start
clumping together. This clumping will also essentially knead the dough clumps as
they spin in the mixer, quickly building dense balls of dough. Once the wet and
dry are fully mixed, you'll have a crumbly mess of dough, it will be unlikely to
come into a cohesive ball of dough. Folks call this "soboro," a term meaning
"shreds" or "clumps." That's ok; ramen dough is crumbly by nature. It doesn't
have a lot of water. 1 to 2-inch pieces for most doughs is a good sign. To
compensate, we need to go to the next phase.

## Step Four: The First Rest

You've added a bunch of water to a dry starch, spun it around, and developed
some stringy gluten. You've also incorporated air into the mix by tossing around
the starch and water. Now you have to stop doing anything. Leave the dough
alone. Don't touch it.  

I know, it seems counterintuitive. But this is absolutely required. 

Cover the mixing vessel with plastic wrap, or store the dough in an airtight
container, and leave it on the counter for a while. At least 30 minutes.
Sometimes an hour. If you're short on time, you can stick it in the fridge and
leave it there overnight. 

Why? 

Resting has several major benefits:

* **reduce the rigidity of the gluten in the dough**: Because the mixing we just
  performed partially kneaded the dough, the gluten strands have become
  "active". After being exposed to force, the gluten in its current form makes
  the dough springy, tough, and difficult to roll out. Just like with other
  doughs, you need to let this dough rest. 

* **even hydration**: Your dough is low hydration. The water and alkaline salts
  need time to mingle with the starches and flour, something that, with higher
  hydration, isn't as much of a problem. There's just more water to move around
  to do the job when you have pizza or bread dough. But for ramen noodles, that
  isn't the case, the starches have less available water and therefore won't
  hydrate as quickly. You'll notice when you next handle the dough that it feels
  wetter than when you covered it as a result of giving it that time to hydrate.

* **degassing of the dough**: the dough is filled with both large and small air
  pockets. These pockets can disrupt a strong, tightly packed gluten network and
  a rigid starch gel that's integral to the structure and texture of the dough.
  If you have way too much air, these pockets also expand in cooking (as heat
  causes air to expand), creating a spongy texture in the final dough. By
  resting, you essentially let gravity and capillary action force out small
  bubbles in the dough. Noodles, as a result, will appear more translucent as
  air is forced out. 

* **begins enzymatic activity in the dough**: enzymes in the dough get to work
  once the flour is hydrated. In ramen, we care specifically about proteases,
  which start snipping the chains of gluten into smaller pieces. When this
  occurs, these pieces are effectively primed to be stitched back together into
  longer, stronger chains of gluten when kneaded. While this might seem
  counter-intuitive, this enzymatic activity improves the strength of the gluten
  in the long term. 

It's critical either way. Rest your dough!

## Step Five: The First Pressing

Taking the crumbly dough, it's time to do the first pressing. Get a batch you
can handle and press into a thick sheet you can eventually stuff into a pasta
machine. 

You should have a pasta machine for this. As mentioned earlier, ramen comes from
heavy industrial processing, with massive rollers. We don't have this, but we do
have pasta machines! 

Some manufacturers, like Sun and Yamato, suggest pressing by no more than 30% of
the previous thickness. So if your initial dough thickness is 2 millimeters, you
should decrease the thickness by no more than 0.6 millimeters per pass. I'm not
at all sure where this number comes from, but your pasta machine likely has
these ranges built-in. Don't sweat it. 

Take the thick sheet, and roll it through your widest setting. Press it between
the rollers if you need to. It's going to look ragged and terrible. Don't worry
about it, just try to keep it together. Roll out to the 2nd, and then the 3rd
largest setting one by one. 

At this stage, fold the dough over itself, and run it through the 2nd largest
setting. This is called "compound pressing," and essentially gives you more bang
for your buck. You'll then repeat this process another time, folding in half,
and then running the dough through the largest setting. 

The dough needs to go through the machine in the same direction. Folding should
always happen through the middle width of the sheet. The reason for this is
that, in this rolling technique, you're aligning the gluten to run horizontally
through the sheet of the dough. You'll notice this effect as you roll, the dough
will have white lines running lengthwise as your dough rolls and becomes more
cohesive. 

This adjustment of the gluten network means that, upon eating the noodles, your
teeth bite perpendicularly to the gluten network, rather than along with it.
Much like biting into a steak that's cut with the grain, the dough will feel
considerably chewier and more robust. This structure also has the benefit of
helping make sure that the starches gel closely together. 

Alternatively, for doughs with more water, you can also throw the dough into a
plastic bag and step on it a bunch butâ€¦ that always felt a little too crude for
me. Some shops do this believe it or not. But the goal here is to develop gluten
fully, get the starches to connect nicely and to have something you can roll out
into noodles. 

## Step Six: Rest it (AGAIN)

Remember how I said gluten is really active when you press it? Well, you just
made it even more active. You also probably incorporated some small air bubbles.
So cover the sheets of dough with plastic and rest them for 30 minutes. This
will make it easier to roll and cut later on. For those who have made pasta
before, this should be familiar. 

## Step Seven: Roll and Cut

Take your sheets, and starting with the largest setting, roll out setting by
setting to your desired thickness. Dust the sheets with cornstarch or potato
starch as needed, and then, when the dough is to your thickness liking, cut
lengthwise into noodles. I use a noodle cutter attachment, but you can also cut
by hand if you like that rustic flair. 

Once the noodles are cut, you can do one of two things before storing:

1. Ball 'em up into portions, you're done! 

2. Knead the noodles into one another. This technique is called "temomi", or
   hand pressing, and creates an irregular, wavy texture. I like to dust the
   noodles with cornstarch, knead them together into a ball, and then detangle
   them. You can also press the noodles repeatedly into the surface of your
   workspace for a similar effect. 

Some shops will do the kneading right before cooking. I can only hypothesize
that the kneading immediately before cooking causes the gluten to become active,
resulting in more rigidity and slower cook time when the noodle is finally
cooked. When kneading right after cutting, but not before usage, the method is
primarily to change the appearance of the noodle.

## Step Eight: Mature Noodles

Ok, so you have beautiful, cut, perfect noodles. Time to eat? 

Not so fast! These noodles need time! Sensing a pattern here? 

Maturation is the final phase of ramen noodle making, and it's extremely helpful
for developing ramen. In this final resting phase, the noodlesâ€¦ sit around. And
as a result, some final effects on the dough occur: 

1. Final degassing. Any residual air trapped in the dough will eventually leave.
   This is where nice noodles become glossy, translucent, and ultra chewy. 

2. Hydration redistribution: residual water in the dough evaporates (you might
   notice some minor condensation in the container over time). This results in a
   more consistent product. 

3. Enzymatic activity occurs. Enzymes in the flour get to work, developing
   flavor in the dough, and snipping proteins, which result in a more robust
   mesh of gluten. 

Different noodles need to mature for different amounts of time. Generally
though, the more water you have in the dough, the longer the noodles should
mature. A good starting point is at least 24 hours for any noodle, but
experiment as you get comfortable with noodle making. 

Some manufacturers will mature their final cut noodles at room temperature,
which rapidly improves the quality of the starch network. In the fridge, the
starch gel is much firmer than at room temperature, so the starch gel takes
longer to effectively collapse and become dense when cold. Essentially, the room
temperature approach is a rapid, faster method. It is a quintessential technique
of Sapporo style noodles. However, you need to be careful; at room temperature,
there's a possibility for pathogen growth. Noodles with an appropriate level of
alkalinity, or preservatives like alcohol or sorbitol, can withstand room
temperature better. 

While refrigerated, noodles keep for several weeks. For long term storage,
noodles can be kept in the freezer for easily 6 months with no reduction in
quality. 
