# Aroma Oil

Aroma oil, the unsung hero of ramen. 

Have you ever noticed the glimmering surface of a bowl of shoyu ramen? How it
almost looks crystalline, glistening with little beads of fat? Those fat blobs
are an intentional component of the dish, one that you should be eager to add to
your final bowl. 

In modern ramen making, the fat content is seen as integral for a host of
reasons:

* **Aroma**: Fat often dissolves compounds not otherwise dispersed in the soup.
  These compounds are often volatile and release when heated within an oily
  solution. The oil's design here is to provide an additional level of aromatic
  quality, hence the name.

* **Insulation**: Fat acts as an insulator, creating a barrier between the water in
  the soup and the air. This prevents heat in the soup from escaping as vapor.
  Some styles of ramen, like Sapporo Miso, actually hinge on this mechanism to
  retain the dish's heat. 

* **Viscosity**: Fat has a specific texture on the palate that plays well with the
  texture of the soup itself.

* **Complexity**: Including an aroma oil in the bowl allows the cook to layer
  flavors throughout the bowl. Since these compounds would otherwise be absent
  without an aroma oil to dissolve them, the complexity of the final dish can be
  improved.

* **Visual Appeal**: Uhâ€¦ fat just looks awesome. It refracts light well and makes
  the surface of the ramen more complex. You eat with your eyes, it's not silly!

It's worth noting that, contrary to the lore of many chefs, *fat does not help
soup stick to noodles*. As mentioned in the soup section of this book, fat is
hydrophobic as a non-polar liquid. Water is a polar solvent, and as such only
dissolves compounds that have, well, polarity. Table salt comes to mind, the
chloride is significantly electronegative, while the sodium ion is
electropositive. Fats, by contrast, are nonpolar. The distribution of the charge
is pretty neutral across the length of the fat molecule. This is especially true
for long fatty acids most commonly found in fats used in food. The interaction
between water and fat is therefore repulsive. To minimize free energy, fats
prefer to attract one another instead of other water molecules. Without
chemically altering the molecules, the fat and the water, therefore, separate
and poorly interact with one another. This can only be "overcome" by emulsion,
where additional compounds are introduced that allows the fat droplets to
suspend in the water with greater stability. However, emulsions don't make the
fat more attracted to water either. Emulsions simply reduce the attraction of
fat droplets to each other.

If we believe the science, there's no scientific explanation that justifies the
kitchen lore on soup-sticking-fat. Fat isn't dragging more soup onto the noodle,
out of anything it's displacing soup as it coats noodles. But aroma oil is still
valuable for the flavor, mouthfeel, and visual appeal it provides. 

Aroma oil is sort of a new addition in several respects. Normally, aromatic oil
was derived from the soup making process. Vegetables floating on the surface of
the bubbling broth infused the rendered fat from chicken or pork bones used to
make the base soup. With the modernization of the technique, cooks now infuse
the fat more carefully or add additional fat on top of the fat that is rendered
during the soup making process. 

This can be a tough pill to swallow for home cooks, but it's important. For
ramen broths, you should expect to include fat in the dish. Ramen isn't really
ramen without some form of fat. This ain't health food y'all. So this chapter
will introduce several styles of fat that you can include. Typically, aroma oil
is added with the tare, in a liquid (read: warm if an animal/saturated fat)
state. 

Most aroma oils take the same standard approach. Take fat and aromatics and
bring them to the point that the aromatics sizzle. You can push this more and
allow them to brown, or not, your choice, but then remove from the heat and
allow the aromatics to steep in the fat until cool. Then strain and reserve as
needed. 

Of all the components in ramen, aroma oil is probably the most versatile for
home cooks; you can use it for all sorts of other dishes beyond ramen. This
chapter includes the standard aroma oils I use, but the possibilities are
limitless. 
